All this comes about in 2009
working in consulting.
Both my co-founder Iñigo and I were
working on the strategy part of
a consultancy and gave the chance
that I did two projects in
consultancy, one related to
the internet and another related
to the Food Home, of a
company that was going out
to the stock market at that time.
I was trying to go out of stock, then
it didn't go out and well, the result
of the analysis of what we saw, in
this case I was analyzing that the
online channel of the Food
Home, in particular in Spain,
was working very well and
was taking off.
On the other hand, as consultants
we worked until the night and we
asked in general also to
the Home Food and we always
asked at the end to the same
and it was a super dull
process by phone, etc.
So we were going to combine both
things and we said, heh, there is
no way to add all the restaurants
in the city on a web platform
that allows you to place
orders conveniently, quickly,
etc.
Then we believed at that moment,
I shared it with Iñigo, Iñigo
liked the idea a lot and we
believed at that moment it was
an idea that no one in the world
had ever heard of and after
devoting him four hours to analyze
it we realized that this was
more than invented, it was
now nine years running
this type of platforms.
The oldest was probably Just Eat
in Denmark, which at the time
was very, that is, at first it
was Denmark, very small form, which
then over the years, after the
years went to London and that'
s where it really took off.
There were platforms like this in
the United States as well.
So, well, that was good and
bad news.
On the one hand, it was worth giving you the
business model, on the other hand, I
said, you hear, because at some point they
will come to Spain and it will be more complicated.
Then we started to release it while
we were working at Price and after
a year and peak, we saw that Just
Eat was coming to Spain.
I remember perfectly that, more
at that time, I just got married
at the party and we
talked to a person.
We get the rice, the train
goes, we have to jump.
This was in September and we were
still doubting a little more and
in December we jumped, December
2010, January 2011.
And that's where the story began, which
is a story that lasted exactly four years.
In fact, it is very strange.
And the company started four years
later, the day before or the
day after my birthday.
It was funny, I always
told him.
It was a very quick story.
Four years is really a short
time for a company like
this.
And really from operation to
operation, with revenue and
running, it was in 40 months,
from September 2011 to January 2015.
At that time we were about sixty
people in the team, twenty thousand
people of technology
and product.
On the platform we had, I already
dance the figures, but a little
more than half a million users
and we generated restaurants
around 35-40 million euros annually,
growing at an annual rate
of around 300%.
We had a great brand recognition
and we were, from the point of
view of brand recognition and
value generation to restaurants,
leaders in Spain, despite fighting
against the leader of Just
Eat, who had already raised
about 200 million euros,
had gone to the stock
exchange, etc.
And at that time, for different
reasons, we were talking to
different competitors who
wanted to buy us.
We said no several times and
came a time when it became obvious
that we had to at least assemble
a process and see what value
the market found in our
business.
We started that process and in about
two or three months there were up to
four or five interested in buying the
company, a auction was generated,
the price was raised and in the end
the valuation was good and in the end
since January 2015 we sold the company.
I stayed for a few months helping with
the transition and then decided
to set up the fund I am telling you
now, which is called Samaipata
Ventures, which is a fund
specialized in marketplaces in
southern Europe.